# Configuration files for Reporter
[Return to Index](README.md)

1. [Configuration File](#configuration-file)
1. [Template File](#template-file)

## Configuration File
The configuration File is the default configuration file format for the Reporter and is created when the Reporter is launched for the first time or when the Reporter cannot find it in the default directory.

**Example default RFSwarmReporter.ini file:**
```ini
[GUI]
win_width = 800
win_height = 370
donation_reminder = 1746894451

[Reporter]
resultdir = C:\rfswarm\venv\Lib\site-packages\rfswarm_reporter
results = 
report = 
template = 
templatedir = 
```

### [GUI]
All of the settings that are related to user interface are under the GUI section heading.

#### Window Width
The window width setting defines the width of the main Reporter window. This setting is mainly used to reopen the Reporter window in the state in which it was closed, you can use this setting to control width manually.
```ini
win_width = 800
```

#### Window Height
The window height setting defines the height of the main Reporter window. This setting is mainly used to reopen the Reporter window in the state in which it was closed, you can use this setting to control height manually.
```ini
win_height = 350
```

#### Donation Reminder
This setting is only used by the Reporter to control donation reminders.
```ini
donation_reminder = 1746482031
```

### [Reporter]
All general settings for Reporter can be found under the Reporter section heading.

#### Result Directory
This setting defines the path to the results directory that will be displayed when selecting them.
```ini
resultdir = C:\rfswarm\venv\Lib\site-packages\rfswarm_manager\results
```

#### Results
The result setting specifies the path to the database file of the results obtained from the manager. From this file the Reporter will gather all the data that manager has collected during the test run so it can create report file.
The data that is used to generate report is also collected from the "Logs" directory, which should be in the same directory as the database file. Additional data includes, for example, screenshots of failed robot tests.
```ini
results = C:\rfswarm\venv\Lib\site-packages\rfswarm_manager\results\20250501_103943_browser\20250501_103943_browser.db
```

#### Report
The report setting indicates the path to the report template file, which is the basis for all possible reports the user may create, for example: html report.
This file is just used by Reporter to generate reports and should not be edited. This file is generated based on the provided template file.
```ini
report = C:\rfswarm\venv\Lib\site-packages\rfswarm_manager\results\20250501_103943_browser\20250501_103943_browser.report
```

#### Template
The template setting indicates the path to the template file that defines the appearance and content of the report files generated by Reporter.
```ini
template = C:\rfswarm\venv\Lib\site-packages\rfswarm_reporter\templates\browser_test.template
```

#### Template Directory
This setting defines the default path for template file which will be shown when saving or opening template.
```ini
templatedir = C:\rfswarm\venv\Lib\site-packages\rfswarm_reporter\templates
```

## Template File
This file contains all the configuration that was done in the Reporter and provides the possibility to save created configuration. Once opened, Reporter will load the selected template file into the application.
In this file, you can select section types between: Header, Note, Content, Data Table, Data Graph, Error Details to create a rich report of the run that was completed using the Manager.
For more information follow: [rfswarm Reporter: user interface](rfswarm_reporter.md#user-interface)

**Example template file:**
```ini
[Report]
order = FE084ACBCC8,FD477088D4F,FE35765B841
title = Template Title
timezone = Europe/Warsaw
dateformat = yyyy-mm-dd
timeformat = HH:MM
startoffset = -43
showstarttime = -1
endoffset = 47
showtlogo = 1
showendtime = -1
font = Verdana
fontsize = 12
percentile = 90
hcolour = x3503fcb1
tlogo = ..\current_page_1.jpg

[FD477088D4F]
name = Test Result Summary
parent = TOP
type = table
changed = 1746909845.4730191
colours = 1
datatype = Metric
col_result_name_show = 1
col_minimum_show = 1
col_average_show = 1
col_90x37ile_show = 1
col_maximum_show = 1
col_std_dev_show = 1
col_pass_show = 1
col_fail_show = 1
col_other_show = 0
sql = SELECT PrimaryMetric , PrimaryMetric as x91Colourx93  , min(CAST(MetricValue AS NUMERIC)) AS 'Minimum' , ...
filteragent = 
filtertype = None
col_primarymetric_show = 1
col_metrictype_show = 1
col_secondarymetric_show = 1
col_metricvalue_show = 1
filterpattern = 
metrictype = Summary
secondarymetric = EntryTime
isnumeric = 1
showcount = 1
primarymetric = 
enablefilteragent = 0
col_agent_show = 1

[FE084ACBCC8]
name = Note
parent = TOP
type = note
changed = 1746900650.1195264
note = Test_Note 123 x35$x37x12

[Colours]
defcolours = x35000000,x35008450,x35B81D13,x35EFB700, ...
namecolours = ...

[FE35765B841]
name = Errord
parent = TOP
type = errors
changed = 1746909832.5245595
images = 1
grouprn = 1
groupet = 1
sql = SELECT r.script_index || '_' || r.robot || '_' || r.iteration || '_' || r.sequence 'id' , r.result_name , r.script_index , r.robot , r.iteration , r.sequence , mt.SecondaryMetric 'script' , mt.MetricValue 'test_name' FROM Results r LEFT JOIN MetricData mt on mt.PrimaryMetric = r.script_index AND mt.MetricType = 'Scenario_Test' WHERE r.result = 'FAIL' AND r.end_time >= 1746088783 AND r.end_time <= 1746088860 ORDER BY x91idx93 ASC
```

### [Report]
This section header contains the settings that are found in the main section of the report (Report).
This section is referred to as the main component of the report in which all sections are located. Here you will find the settings that will be applied to all created sections under this section or the settings related to the cover sheet.

#### Order
The order setting contains the order of the created sections in the Reporter and, with this setting, the Reporter can reproduce the sections according to the established order.
```ini
order = FE084ACBCC8,FD47763734B,FE16DE59841,FD477088D4F,FD3729CF59E,FD4776B42A1,FE352010EFD
```

#### Title
The title setting is responsible for setting the title of the report.
```ini
title = Template Title
```

#### Time zone
The time zone setting is responsible for setting the time zone of the report.
```ini
timezone = Europe/Warsaw
```

#### Date Format
The date format setting is responsible for setting the date format of the report. You can choose between different types in the Reporter settings.
```ini
dateformat = yyyy-mm-dd
```

#### Time Format
The time format setting is responsible for setting the time format of the report. You can choose between different types in the Reporter settings.
```ini
timeformat = HH:MM
```

#### Start Offset
The start offset setting is responsible for setting the start offset for the all report. This is used to control the time interval over which data from the database will be taken for analysis in sections.
```ini
startoffset = -43
```

#### End Offset
The end offset setting is responsible for setting the end offset for the all report. This is used to control the time interval over which data from the database will be taken for analysis in sections.
```ini
endoffset = 47
```

#### Show Start Time
The show start time setting determines whether the start time is to be displayed in the report file in the Cover section. 
(-1 = Not configured yet, 0 = No, 1 = Yes)
```ini
showstarttime = -1
```

#### Show End Time
The show end time setting determines whether the end time is to be displayed in the report file in the Cover section. 
(-1 = Not configured yet, 0 = No, 1 = Yes)
```ini
showendtime = 0
```

#### Logo Image
The logo image setting specifies the path to the logo file which will be displayed in the Reporter Cover section in the top of the report file.
```ini
tlogo = ..\my_page.jpg
```

#### Show Logo
The show logo setting determines whether to show logo in the Reporter Cover section. 
```ini
showtlogo = 0
```

#### Font
The font setting specifies the font that will be used in the report file for all sections.
```ini
font = Verdana
```

#### Font Size
The font size setting specifies the font size.
```ini
fontsize = 12
```

#### Highlight Colour
The highlight colour setting specifies the colour to be applied to all headings and column headings in the report file.
```ini
hcolour = x3503fcb1
```

#### Percentile
The percentile setting determines the percentile value that will be included for all sections.
```ini
percentile = 90
```

### [Colours]
This section header contains the settings which are related to the choice of colours for the appropriate names.

#### Colours Definitions
The colours definitions contains sequentially defined colour codes that will be used in the Reporter to display data on graphs and tables.
This setting is intended to make the colours compatible with each other.
```ini
defcolours = *colours*
```

#### Name Colours
This setting contains the names to which the colours defined in defcolours will be assigned.
```ini
namecolours = *names*
```

### [section_id]
This section in the configuration file mirrors every section created and configured in the Reporter.
The settings in this section define how it behaves in relation to the data collected by the Reporter.
The settings are selected according to the type of section selected.
More information on these sections and the settings for them can be found here: [rfswarm Reporter: section types](rfswarm_reporter.md#section-types)

**General settings for all section types. Further on, there are defined settings for individual section types.**

#### Name
The name setting defines the name of the setting that will be displayed in the report file and in the Reporter application.
```ini
name = Table of Contents
```

#### Parent
The parent setting defines the upper section for this section. The default value is TOP, i.e. the section is displayed as part of the report as the main section.
If the section is a subsection of another section, the id of that section will appear here. In this way, this section will be displayed in the report as a subsection of another section.
```ini
parent = TOP
```

#### Type
This setting determines what type of section it is.
Possible types are: head (Heading), note (Note), contents (Contents), table (Data Table), graph (Data Graph), errors (Error Details).
```ini
type = contents
```

#### Changed
The changed setting specifies the time at which any changes were made to this section.
```ini
changed = 1746899573.085544
```

**Type: Note**

#### Note
The note setting defines the content of this note, which will be shown in the preview and report.
```ini
note = Hello, this is my note.
```

**Type: Contents**

#### Mode
The mode setting determines which sections will be included in the table of contents.
Possible types are: Table Of Contents, Table Of Graphs, Table Of Tables.
```ini
mode = Table Of Contents
```

#### Level
The level determines the level of subsections to be displayed in the table of contents. When selecting further levels, the previous upper levels are also displayed.
```ini
level = 2
```

**Type: Data Table**

#### Colours
The colours setting specifies whether to display the assigned colours to the data in the table or not.
The value 0 means no colours are displayed and the value 1 means they are displayed.
```ini
colours = 1
```

#### Show Counts
The show count setting specifies whether to show count of the number of times this metric was recorded or not.
```ini
showcount = 1
```

#### Number Value
The is numeric setting specifies whether the Reporter should treat the metric value as numeric or not.
```ini
isnumeric = 0
```

#### Rename Column Name Data Table
This setting determines which column name has been changed and to what new name.
```ini
col_*column_name* = *new_column_name*
```

**Type: Error Details**

#### Show Screenshots
The images setting determines whether the Reporter should include a screenshot in the report (if found by the Reporter) or not.
```ini
images = 1
```

#### Group By Result Name
The images setting determines whether the Reporter should group all errors related to the same result name or not.
```ini
grouprn = 0
```

#### Group By Error Text
The images setting determines whether the Reporter should group all errors based on the error text or not.
```ini
groupet = 1
```

#### Rename Column Name Data Table
This setting determines which label of the error section name has been changed and to what new name.
```ini
lbl_*column_name* = *new_column_name*
```

**Type: Data Table & Data Graph & Error Details**

#### End Offset (internal)
The end offset setting is responsible for setting the end offset for this section. This is used to control the time interval over which data from the database will be taken for analysis in this section.
```ini
endoffset = 60
```

#### Start Offset (internal)
The start offset setting is responsible for setting the start offset for this section. This is used to control the time interval over which data from the database will be taken for analysis in this section.
```ini
startoffset = 17
```

**Type: Data Table & Graph Sections & Error Details**

#### SQL
This setting contains the entire query which is sent to the Manager's database in order to get the necessary data to create the content of the section.
```ini
sql = *sql query*
```

**Type: Data Table & Graph Sections**

#### Data Type
The data type setting determines which data from the Manager's database is displayed on the section graph or table and the rest of the data types are later selected based on this setting.
```ini
datatype = Metric
```

#### Metric Type
This setting determines the specific type of metric.
```ini
metrictype = Summary
```

#### Primary Metric
This setting determines the specific type of primary metric.
```ini
primarymetric = Clicking link Purchase
```

#### Secondary Metric
This setting determines the specific type of secondary metric.
```ini
secondarymetric = min
```

#### Secondary Metric
Response Time, TPS. Total TPS.
```ini
resulttype = Response Time
```

#### Filter Agent
This setting specifies filtering by saved agent name so that the displayed data in the graph could be only related to that specific agent.
```ini
filteragent = Browser_Agent_nr_3
```

#### Enable Filter Agent
This setting determines whether data is to be filtered by agent name or not.
```ini
enablefilteragent = 1
```

#### Filter Type
This setting determine if the filter pattern will limit results shown or restrict results from being shown. The possible options are:
- Wildcard (Unix Glob): filter data for a graph by selecting only matching entries.
- Not Wildcard (Unix Glob): excludes specific patterns, ensuring unwanted data is not displayed.
```ini
filtertype = Wildcard (Unix Glob)
```

#### Filter Pattern
This setting is closely linked to the filter_name setting. This setting is used to store the pattern used in the graph, so that the data can be filtered according to the filter_name type used.
```ini
filterpattern = Click Button *
```

#### Filter Result
This setting determines how the data is filtered based on the result returned by the test.
The possible types are: Pass, Fail, None.
```ini
filterresult = Pass
```

#### Enable Filter Result
This setting determines whether data is to be filtered by result type or not.
```ini
enablefilterresult = 1
```

**Type: Data Table & Error Details**

#### Column Show
This setting specifies whether to show the specified column in the table or not.
```ini
col_*column_name*_show = 0
```

### [section_id(L or R)] - Graph Sections
This section(s) is created when the graph section is defined. This section(s) is/are similar to the Data Table section, and contains most of the settings of that section. It is used to define what data is displayed on the graph and what is not.
The section id with "L" indicates the left side of the graph in which data will be assigned to the left y-axis. The same with the twin section with "R".

#### Show Total
The show total setting determines whether to shows (if the Data Type is set to the Plan) a line for the total number of planned robots or not.
```ini
showtotal = 1
```

#### Axis Enabled
This setting determines whether the data is to be displayed on the graph by linking it to a specific y-axis as defined by the section identifier (L or R).
```ini
axisen = 0
```

#### Granularity Seconds
This setting is used to specify the length of the window in which data will be smoothed based on the selected granularity type.
```ini
gseconds = 60
```

#### Granularity Type
This setting is used to determine the type of granularity used in the graph to smooth the data plot based on the selected method. The possible types are: Average, Maximum, Minimum.
```ini
gwtype = Maximum
```
